hello everyone and welcome to another
section of our deep dive Series today
we're going to be talking about elastic
search which is one of the most popular
and Powerful open-source distributed
search engines reminder that our Deep
dive series is intended to give you
depth that's going to be relevant for
your interviews and so what we're going
to be trying to cover here are both how
Technologies can be used in an interview
and an assistant design setting as well
as how they work so that you can
understand the internals and answer
questions
uh that may come up I'm Stefan I am one
of the co-founders of hello interview
I've worked as a senior manager at both
meta and Amazon and over the course of
my career conducted north of 2,000
interviews very familiar with how
interviewers tend to think about the
process and hoping to share some of
those insights along the way this
session is going to be divided into two
parts in the first part we're going to
talk about how to use elastic search
this is particularly relevant for
interviews where search is actually not
the primary functionality or in certain
types of interview like the product
design interview at meta or interviews
for full stack engineers at startups
where your interviewer wants to see you
solve problems not necessarily you have
deep knowledge of how distributed
systems work in the second half of the
session what we're going to do is peel
back the layers of elastic search and
talk about some of the design decisions
under the covers and how clusters
function
the goal there is both to give you some
insights into how it actually functions
but also some inspiration for your own
designs especially as they pertain to
more infra style interviews before we
get too deep just a reminder that all of
this information is available on our
website hello interview.com there we've
collected a bunch of deep Dives on
technologies that we really think you
should know just like elastic search as
well as common problems that you might
encounter in a system design interview
in these instances we've broken it down
walk through some of the different
choices that you might need to make and
then giving you an indication as to
which ones are great and which ones are
probably not the ones that you might
want to use in an interview we've also
recently launched our guided practice
product guided practice is solving this
problem that a lot of people watch
videos they read blogs and they kind of
fail to integrate the information that
they've consumed with guided practice
you're actually going to work through a
problem you'll submit your answers on a
whiteboard word by narrating your
response and then you'll get
personalized feedback on how you did
what things went well what didn't go
well and how to improve this is a great
way to make sure that you're actually
retaining the information that you're
taking in and there actually is a guided
practice for post search which is a
perfect complement to this video in the
first half of this video we're going to
talk about how to use elastic search in
a system design setting for that you
first need to talk about search so what
is search well typical search
experiences are comprised of a few
different pieces first I'm going to give
the search some criteria let's pretend
that I'm searching for books I'm
actually going to use a bookstore as a
motivating example throughout this video
so maybe I want to search my bookstore
for books that have the title that
contains great and for a price that's
less than
$13 that's potentially describing a lot
of books so I might want to sort those
books in my search results in that case
I might specify that I want to see the
most recently published books that
contain the word great in my search
result page I might also have an option
to break down the search and refine what
I've described these are typically
called facets or faceted search and one
example is I might want a refine by the
publisher maybe hash it or Simon and
Schuster boo hash it for suing the
internet archive anyway the net of a
search experience is a set of results
basically a set of documents in this
casee the documents represent books that
I want to return but they could really
be anything we can think of this as
arbitrary Json blobs that we might wearn
in return while elastic search does
support other use cases like analytics
use cases as part of the elk stack I'm
not going to talk about this too
intensively in this session just because
search is really rich and I want to go
into more detail now how does elastic
search think about search well there are
some key Concepts that we have to
identify and name before we can go into
more detail about that the first and
most important concept is the document
like I mentioned documents aren't
necessarily PDFs or things like that
they're just Json blobs and they can
potentially contain anything the next
primitive that we're working with in
elastic surch is called an index and
index is kind of an overloaded term in
computer science index is usually
referring to how we structure data to
make retrieval really fast in this case
an index is just a collection of
documents that we want to make
searchable within an index we have two
relevant Concepts one is called a
mapping and one is called a field the
mapping is going to specify in some
sense the schema that I want to be
searchable on my documents so my
documents might have dozens of fields
but my users may not need to search all
of those my mapping in some sense is
telling the search engine elastic search
which of those fields are pertinent and
then what are their types so in this
case I can tell elastic search that the
price is always going to be a floating
Point number and as a result elastic
search can organize that information so
that I can have range queries and I can
find Price Less Than
$13 so with our terms in place we can
now talk about how we actually bring
docs into elastic search and how we make
them searchable elastic search provides
a restful API and it actually actually
has a pretty good one so if you haven't
designed a restful API before it's
actually a useful one to look at both so
you can get some ideas about what a
solid production level API looks like
and how they handle some complicated
Corner cases the very first call that
we're going to make is this put to slash
whatever our index name this is creating
a books index and I can specify some
configuration parameters but all of them
are optional I'll get into what shards
and replicas are a little bit later
important thing here is this creates me
an index I don't have to specify a
mapping but I can and the reason that I
might want to is because if elastic
search can't infer the types of the
fields which ones I want to search
particularly complex configurations it
may make some mistakes there's also a
lot of overhead to having elastic search
guess at what your mapping might look
like because it's going to be indexing a
bunch of fields that you may not care
about now note the field types here have
a ton of implications we talked about
how the price we wanted to be able to do
range search on so that's available here
note also that we've got these text and
keyword types text allow us to do rich
full text search so if I want to search
for Great in Great Gatsby I can do that
in a text field a keyword on the other
hand is opaque each of the tokens is
kind of a unit and so this is really
appropriate for places where for
instance my set of categories is fixed
maybe in the UI and the users can click
or select from the available categories
this guarantees that I can do those
lookups Lightning Fast think a hash
lookup but it won't allow me to for
instance search for all categories that
contain the word fiction when that might
include non-fiction note also here that
I am including this nested reviews this
if you're famili with normalization and
denormalization might be a little bit
clear but what we'd like to be able to
do is answer our search queries with as
few requests as possible and by nesting
the reviews in the document we can
basically construct queries where we can
say I want specific types of books that
have certain reviews now this is not
without its downsides if reviews are
changing a lot or if my queries rarely
touch them this is actually going to be
really EXP expensive for me to maintain
that way and I might actually be better
served by creating a separate index for
them but in this case I'm showing you
what this might look like and assuming
that reviews aren't going to be shifting
a lot but that customers care about them
next let's talk about adding documents
to our Index this is dead simple I make
a post request to this undor doc
endpoint inside my index and I pass all
of the documents contents when I do this
elastics search is going to respond with
a basically success message that tells
me a number of details for instance what
was this document's identifier what was
the index it was created into and this
version number the important thing here
is that elastic search is a distributed
system we could be making updates from
any node and they might take some time
to percolate through the system so it's
really important that we handle
collisions and concurrence
this is particularly relevant when we
start to talk about updates for updates
the simplest possible API is to make a
put request to this doc endpoint with
the ID that I'd seen earlier I pass in
the entire document body and I can
update it now this is probably Overkill
if I just want to change the rating on
one of the reviews for instance but it
also has some downsides in that if two
updates are submitted simultaneously the
last one wins this is where that version
identifier comes in what I can do is in
my update I can pass in the version
number and what elastic search will do
is it will reject that update if that
version number doesn't match this gives
me a chance to handle the Collision or
the conflict on the client my client can
then go in query what the latest version
is take a diff decide what to do and
resubmit it to request this is actually
a pretty common pattern in distributed
systems and it's just a way to ensure
that the update happening is the one
that we would anticipate another
strategy here which actually doesn't
solve the raise conditions but solves
part of the problem is that I can make
field Byfield updates by post posting to
this underscore update endpoint and in
this case I'm simply bumping the price
from $33.99 to $4.99 Okay so we've
talked a lot about how to insert and
update documents as if elastic search is
a document database and it kind of is
but the key thing here that we want to
get into is search well fortunately
search is really straightforward too
there is this nice API endpoint
underscore search which sits on the
index and allows you to search using
this query language that's basically
Json and very SQL like in nature so if
for instance we wanted to allow searches
by title where it contains a specific
word then we can just simply do a match
query with great in the body if we
wanted to extend that by saying that we
also want it to be less than $15 we can
do that and then if we wanted to have a
query of books where the reviews had
this comment excellent and their rating
is greater than or equal to four out of
five we can do that too now note these
are get end points you can't actually
put this in the body of a get request it
doesn't actually meet standards or you
can actually stuff this into a query
parameter but you're limited by the size
of a URL which I think is 2048 someone
in the comments please correct me it's
also possible to post here although
that's a little bit out of Canon in that
most of the time when you're doing
search requests you're expecting them to
get they're not actually mutating
anything but the important thing here is
this API is really nice and convenient
and allows you to specify arbitrary
search criteria the first part of the
search product that we talked about
earlier now once I've got search results
s they're going to come back to me in an
API that looks like this elastic search
is going to conveniently report to me
how long that search took whether it
timed out how many shards it hit again
we're going to talk about this a little
later and then it's going to tell me how
many hits and it's going to return the
contents of those documents to me now
this is configurable and in some sense
you may not want to return the entire
document in your search results but
elastic search has this underscore
source which is basically that Source
document that you originally uploaded
it's also possible to return only
specific fields from the document I may
only want the ID or the title I'm always
going to get the document ID inside of
elastic search there's also this field
called score which is trying to
calculate the relevance of the document
to the query that I've input and that
brings us to the second part of our
search product which is the Sorting just
like searching and filtering elastic
search has a pretty extensive API to
allow you to specify whatever sort order
you want so in this first instance I'm
sorting exclusively by Price whereas in
the second instance I'm sorting first by
price and then by publish date remember
that I need one field to be the first
and most important sort order the
remaining fields are basically TI
Breakers I can also specify scripts
elastic search has a language they call
pain L which allows me to specify
basically formulas that I can use to
calculate so this would be the price
with a 10% discount doesn't make any
sense as a sort order to be frank
because the sort doesn't actually change
but you get the general idea that you
can pass in a formula here I can also
sort by those nested objects and Fields
so if I wanted to sort by the highest
review I could do that as well elastic
search will allow me to specify the sort
order very rigidly if I want to I can
tell it exactly which fields to order on
or I can use that underscore score field
that we talked about in the result set
earlier which basically orders by
relevance now relevance is a really deep
topic there's some machine learning and
statistics aspects to this but some of
the simplest algorithms are actually
pretty intuitive and easy to understand
so the most simplest of them all is one
called tfidf term frequency inverse
document frequency and there's two
fundamental observations here first the
most relevant document probably contains
my term more frequently if I'm searching
for elastic search I want it to mention
elastic search a lot the second thing is
I'm going to favor those words that
don't appear very frequently across all
my documents so as an example if I'm
searching for elastic search guide and
I've got two documents one is a short
document which is functional and elastic
search guide and then the second is a
summary of a court case about some
weapon being handed to a guide and the
prosecutor using the technology which
one should I prefer they both contain
elastic search and guide well the first
term frequency is going to tell me that
elastic search appears very commonly in
this document so it's going to get a
score boost just by the number of times
that elastic search appears the next
thing we're going to note is that guide
actually appears in a lot of documents
it not only appears in my elastic search
guide it appears in court cases it might
appear in a bird watching guide and as a
result it's a relatively uninformative
term so what tfidf is going to do is
it's going to score those items which
contain the keywords that are densest
and don't appear in many other places
higher than those keywords that maybe
don't appear very often or appear in
almost all the rest of the documents in
my Corpus the default scoring algorithm
is not actually tfidf but it's a close
variant and it's a good enough
approximation you can assume that
elastic search is basically making some
statistical inferences based on your
documents if you don't specify a
specific sort order now that we filtered
and sorted the results we're almost
ready to send them to the user but we've
got one last step which is we might have
millions of results that we could
potentially return and most people
aren't going to scroll to actually see
all of them it be madly inefficient so
we need to Institute some sort of
pagination there are two types of
pagination stateful and stateless
stateful pagination requires that the
server keep track of something so that
way it knows what the next page is
usually you're talking about cursors
here in stateless pagination we're going
to pass in some sort of parameter that
allows us to localize approximately
where in a result set we'd like to look
so as an example this from and size
query is simply going to take results
starting with the index of from zero and
pages of size 10 it's going to take the
first 10 results and return them to me
when I query again for the next page I'm
going to increment that from to 10 I'm
going to keep the size the same and that
will give me the next 10 for a total of
20 very straightforward I can also use
this search after so in this case I'm
sorting by date and ID when I get to the
bottom of my results I am going to have
a date after which there are no more
results in subsequent pages and an ID
after which there's no more results what
this is is telling elastic surch is it
saying don't return me any results that
might be before these two quantities
these are both comparable but search
after is preferable particularly in the
cases is where you want to go deep into
the pagination because this requires
that me get all the results and then
we're going to slice into that result
set based on the inputs whereas this
actually allows me to restrict the
documents that I'm querying based on
this search after after I've gone deep
into the result set I may actually have
a much smaller Corpus of things that I
can search over and so elastic search
has to do less work it's a kind of
clever idea now both of those those
search types have a problem which is the
index is constantly changing new
documents are being added some are being
deleted in the worst case scenario you
actually have a document which would
have been on the next page but changed
maybe due to a deletion and bumped up to
the page that you were just on if that's
the case then your pagination whether
you choose search after or the from and
size is going to miss a document so how
do we deal with this elastic search
supports a point in time search and the
idea here is I can create a point in
time where elastic search is going to
snapshot what the index looks like at
that period this is going to return me
an ID in this case
460 and I can use that point in time
while I'm searching note I need to
specify a keep alive this is actually
pretty expensive to maintain and so I
need a signal to the server that I still
want it for one more minute every time I
search but what this does is it searches
based on that snapshot and will
guarantee that each page of results is
consistent when I'm done I need to
delete that point in time or let it
expire so that I'm not using excess
memory on the server but this eliminates
at least a small class of problems that
you might have with respect to
pagination how this point in time is
implemented is an interesting point of
discussion for the next section of our
video before we move on I want to
Briefly summarize how you can use
elastic search in your system design
interview typically elastic search is
going to be for complex search
scenarios if you need to do geospatial
indexes if you need to do Vector search
if you need to do simple full Tech
search like we've described elastic
search is probably your friend it
doesn't necess NE necessarily mean that
elastic search applies in every scenario
and there are some potential potholes
that you need to be aware of first of
all elastic search is probably not going
to be your primary database while the
API that I described looks a lot like a
typical document database elastic
search's durability and availability
guarantees aren't actually that good and
over time most people have relied on
setting up a primary data source be it
post grass or Dynamo DB and then using
change data capture CDC to basically
push updates from that database into
elastic search the idea here is elastic
search is going to be a little bit
behind your database but it will have
all the updates the next thing is
elastic search is going to work best
with read heavy workloads if you've got
a lot of Rights happening or if your
rights dominate your reads you may want
to consider whether elastic search is
appropriate there's a lot of ways that
you can change the nature of your
workload maybe limit the number of
Rights or batch them out but generally
speaking elastic search is going to
perform best when we're reading a lot of
data if you're using elastic search you
have to be able to tolerate eventual
consistency it's going to have a delayed
version of the data eventual consistency
is basically endemic to the design of
elastic search if you need strong
consistency if you need to check for
double bookings or things along those
lines you're going to need to use a
different database but if you're not
using it as your primary database you
already know that denormalization is
really key to making elastic search
functional if you've got a particular
search page make sure that you flatten
all of your data and that you're not
trying to make nested relational queries
you basically shouldn't need to do joins
in an elastic search search if you do
you're going to be in trouble first of
all because joins aren't supported and
secondly the way that you might bolt on
joins by doing lookups outside of
elastic search is really going to
compromise performance and the last
thing to consider before you use elastic
search is whether you actually need it
elastic search clusters are not a
trivial matter to operate and maintain
it's a new technology in a lot of cases
a simple search capability in your
existing database might cover your needs
if you need full teex search if you need
to index billions of documents elastic
search is your best friend but if you've
got simplistic needs aim for Simple
Solutions you don't necessarily need to
dig in so far we've talked about elastic
search primarily from the angle of a
user or a client and from an interview
perspective this is still incredibly
useful in a lot of interviews what you
need to be able to do is to point out
when you might use elastic search and
how it might fit into your overall
design if you're designing Twitter
search might be a peripheral concern for
your overall design and delegating that
to elastic search is a completely
sensible design choice in other
interviews either because your
interviewer explicitly tells you don't
use elastic surch I'd love to see how
you implement some of the Core Concepts
or because they tell you to implement a
system which seems a lot like elastic
search being able to understand what
goes on beneath the covers of elastic
search is going to be helpful and that's
really what the second section is about
now the first thing that you need to
understand about elastic search is that
it is in some sense an orchestration
layer for Apache Lucine which is a low
level search
functionality elastic search handles the
distributed systems aspects the API how
to manage nodes how to manage backups
how to keep availability and replication
whereas Lucine is trying to make sure
that the data is organized and that it's
fast Lucine operates on a single node
elastic search operates at a cluster
level and so as we're peeling back the
onion of elastic search we're going to
be progressively talking about the
different layers inside of elastic
search before we talk about some of the
fundamentals of Lucine the first thing
to understand about elastic search as we
kind of peel back the layers of the
onion is the various nodes that make up
a cluster now an elastic search cluster
can have a single host or server node is
not necessarily a physical machine and a
physical machine can take on the
responsibilities of multiple nodes but
at a conceptual level these are the
respon responsibilities that exist
inside the elastic search cluster that
need to be performed by some Hardware
somewhere the first not type is our
Master node or our Master eligible node
and what happens here is when we spin up
our cluster we are actually specifying
seed nodes or seed hosts which elastic
search will try to connect to and then
we'll elect a master of the cluster we
only want one master node so it can make
administrative decisions
like when we create indexes or which
nodes are actually part of the cluster
but the important thing about master
eligible nodes is that there is only one
master that is elected at any point in
time the next node type is the
coordinating node and you can think of
this as kind of the API layer to the
cluster the vast majority of requests
that are coming into my elastic search
cluster are going to be search requests
and what cordinating nodes are doing are
they're taking those requests parsing
them and then passing them to the
relevant nodes that have the data that
we need in order to return the search
results users are for the most part
interacting with these coordinating
nodes data nodes are where our indexes
are stored they are functionally where
we keep our documents and they're
probably the most fundamental of all the
node types we're going to have a lot of
them data nodes need to have really
heavy IO either lots of memory or plenty
of fast dis because the coordinating
nodes are going to be sending search
requests and they expect the data nodes
to be able to respond the ingest nodes
are like the backend for our service
it's how the documents make their way
into the cluster and finally the machine
learning nodes are not always used but
are for machine learning intensive tasks
and the idea with the machine learning
node is these nodes might require access
to a GPU and are going to have very
different access patterns now each of
these Noe types by virtue of their
responsibilities actually imply
different Hardware my master nodes need
to be incredibly robust and reliable
it's very important to me that they're
not going down my coordinating nodes are
going to do a lot of network with
network traffic with the outside world
my data nodes as I mentioned are
actually going to have a lot of uh dis
IO or need lots of memory and my ingest
nodes are going to do a bunch of
analysis of documents they typically are
more CPU bound and so what this implies
is when I set up a cluster I might
actually choose different server or VM
type to take on these node
responsibilities in order to optimize my
cluster remember that the fundamental
grouping of elastic search documents is
an index this might be my books index or
my reviews index inside of an index I
actually have shards and replicas and
these shards are actually going to be
responsible for both containing all of
my documents but also building up index
data structures to make searching fast
the shards are mutually exclusive if
I've got a document it will be assigned
to one Shard or another and the replicas
are basically going to be carbon copies
of those shards I might have for
instance a replica of a Shard across
multiple machines and what this allows
me to do is when I'm searching my
coordinating node can choose whether it
wants to use Shard 1B or Shard 1 a and
spread the load across them so by
replicating these shards I actually gain
throughput particularly on the read Side
by sharding I can spread out very large
indexes across many different machines I
believe A Shard has a hard limit of two
billion documents which is a whole lot
but even if I've got a smaller number
than that I still may want to divide
those documents either because the
aggregate size is too large for a single
machine or because I want to spread the
load across my cluster to make my
queries faster this this is the central
idea of elastic search is that these
shards are breaking down my data and
inside of each Shard is this Lucine
index the Lucine indexes are one to one
with elastic search shards basically A
Shard is just encapsulating a Lucine
index inside Lucine index we have
segments and the way that Lucine works
is basically by accumulating these
immutable segments what happens when I
create a new document is Lucine will
first try to batch that document into as
many rights as it can contain before
flushing it out to create a segment with
multiple documents when I add more
documents later I might create a new
segment and then at some point in the
future Lucine may decide that it will
merge these segments into a third
segment and then delete the old ones the
important thing is that these segments
are immutable they're not changing now
we support updates in elastic search how
does that actually work from a Lucine
perspective well with updates what we're
doing is a soft delete so Lucine inside
these segments maintains a map of
deleted documents so if segment two
contain document one two and three and I
deleted document two this segment will
actually store that ident ifier two
internally and then when I query that
segment I will remove any results that
contain two it's been deleted when I do
an update what I'm going to do is soft
delete I'm going to mark that document
as deleted in the old segment and then
create the updated document in a new
segment this maintains this immutability
aside from that map of deleted documents
these segments aren't changing and it's
one of lucin's more powerful features
because it enables us to exploit a bunch
of caching and concurrency benefits
since segments aren't necessarily
changing when I load them from memory I
can do that in a compressed format and I
can load them all at once I can
guarantee that they aren't changing
underneath me I also can have multiple
readers touching the data in the segment
in a concurrent way without worrying
about race conditions or contamination
the segment data won't change it's
readon in some respects and so this
Lucine idea of maintaining these
immutable segments is really key to both
the performance of elastic search it
allows it to be very fast but it also
puts some limitations that we discussed
earlier on being more read heavy and not
being able to deal with updates or
insertions as quickly as maybe other
systems that might allow mutable data
inside the Lucine segments we need to
store all of our documents conceptually
you can think of a segment like
containing documents but the important
thing is that those searches need to be
fast it's not enough to just dumbly
store our data in these segments we need
to make sure that we can search quickly
Lucine employs several techniques in
order to pull this off one of them is a
reverse or inverted index let's talk
about that briefly so when you want to
make things fast
with computers you've kind of got two
options first you can consider how you
arrange the data in memory if you store
an array randomly you may need to scan
over the entire array in order to get
the thing that you're looking for if you
sort it you can find an element in log
and time if you know exactly what you're
looking for if you want to do a lookup
you can do that in O of one time with a
hash table so changing how you organize
the data is one key the next key is
being able to use copies if we can make
a copy of our data and store it in a
slightly different way then we can
potentially make access to all of the
data really fast now of course we trade
off storage there's a bunch of costs
that are associated with it but those
are really the two options for how we
can make systems fast so the very first
data structure this inverted index is
basically making both those trade-offs
what we're doing here is we've got a set
of documents the first one's says Lazy
Dog it's ID number 12 and then the
second is ID 53 and it says lazy days of
the best day in my index what I'm going
to do is store a dictionary of the words
that are in the documents to the
identifiers of each document that
contain them and what this will allow me
to do is I can very quickly in this
index look at all documents or all yeah
I can look at all documents that contain
the word lazy I simply go to the lazy uh
index index I can do that with a hash
lookup and then I can grab all of the
documents that it contains now there's a
bunch of complexity that comes into
these indexes for instance I might have
variants of lazy that I want to be able
to include I might have other ways of
spelling dog that I want to collapse
together and certain words like R may
appear in almost all documents and so
maybe we don't want to include them this
is fundamentally a question of
tokenization or stemming or litiz and we
won't go into too much detail about this
but this is an important consideration
in order to make these indexes quick now
my inverted index gives me a series of
document IDs but my search query might
actually have a sort order maybe I want
to sort by Price how can I actually make
sure that my results match that query
the next step for us is to think about
how the data is actually arranged in
memory there's fundamentally two
different ways that you can think about
how to organize a table of information
like what we have here the first is what
you would do in a SQL database each of
these rows would be stored basically
contiguously and you would have a bunch
of structs or or fields that are going
to represent each of these inputs so as
an example this is a
piece this is a piece and this is a
piece my table is an array of these
rows now this makes it really easy for
me to get the entirety of a row given an
identifier so if I know what my ID is
and I can look up the the row uh index
then I can very quickly pull all of the
data for that record and in SQL
databases this is a very common
operation but what we want to do in this
case with our Lucine segment is we want
to take a bunch of Doc IDs and resolve
one of the fields we for instance want
just the price we may not even care
about the title and the author in our
query and so in this case what we want
to consider is a columnar store in this
case we're actually going to store the
data as a bunch of columns that we then
concatenate together so instead of
thinking of the table as rows that are
sitting on top of each other we'll think
of it like fixed length columns and what
this allows us to do is it allows us to
get a single or a small number of field
values across all of the documents very
quickly if I have a large number of Doc
IDs I can grab all of their prices
without iterating and crawling over the
entire table grabbing each row even
though I don't care about title and
author in Lucine this is an index called
doc values and Doc values contains these
columnar fields that allow it to do very
quick sorting and filtering based on
those doc IDs that are identified by the
inverted index now while Lucine has some
very low-level optimizations for how
data is organized to make the queries as
fast as possible there are also other
optimization opportunities that exist
inside of elastic Sur one example of
this happens in the coordination nodes
when a query is received by a
coordination node it is first parsed and
then there's an opportunity to optimize
that query what happens is the system
will basically plan what data it needs
to access in order to get the results
the user wants and try to optimize that
plan in order to make it as efficient as
possible now what might be efficient or
inefficient let's let's pretend that
we've got a query that has two keywords
Bill and NY and in our index we have 1
million documents that contain the word
Bill and 1,000 documents that contain
the word NY there's a lot of different
ways that we could execute this well
first of all what we could do is we
could grab all of the documents that
match Bill all of the documents that
that match nigh Union them together and
then do a string search through all of
their contents this is clearly very slow
and it would give us the correct answer
of all the documents that contain Bill
and NY together but it would require
that we transfer the entire content of
the document across the network which is
just a non-starter another option is for
us to use these IDs so we could go in
query all of the documents that contain
the ID for
Bill and we could intersect that with
all of the IDS for NY now this number is
necessarily less than a thousand so a
lot of these IDs aren't going to match
but the IDS that have both Bill and nigh
are going to be matches to our query
that sounds pretty good but we can do
even better than this for instance if we
start with n we don't have to transfer a
million document IDs over the network we
only have to transfer a thousand
document IDs over the network and we
might be able to do even better by going
finding all of the documents that
contain n and then searching through
their Contex to see if any of them
contain bill this is a much bigger
number and if the contents are small
enough we can simply do an aggressive
search across a very small number of
documents so this is the essence of
query planning that there are a lot of
different options that give the same
result but have very different
performance characteristic that we get
to choose from when we try to execute a
query and on the coordination nodes we
have this option to generate query plans
and then using St statistics that we
have on our index like how many
documents match a particular keyword we
can then go and decide which shards we
want to access which Lucine segments we
need to go in query and how we can get
the results back to our users as fast as
possible all right so we've gone super
deep to understand how Lucine works at a
low level to answer search queries as
well as optimizations that can happen on
coordinating nodes to do query planning
and optimize the ex ution plans let's
take a step back to walk through the
entire layer of the onion to talk about
how documents are ingested into an
elastic search cluster and how they're
made searchable so the very first step
is to create a document in a typical
setting a client is going to send a
document to an ingest node which is
going to run an ingestion Pipeline and
process that document before passing it
along to a data node once that data node
has received and index the node it's
going to send an acknowledgement back to
the injust node which can be confirmed
back to the client so they know hey my
document's been received on that data
node we are going to add that document
to a Lucan index in most cases that's
going to result in the creation of a new
segment if we've been adding a lot of
other documents there may be a buffer
and a segment might be created with
multiple
documents now now when it comes time to
search our clients are going to contact
the coordinating node the coordinating
nodes are going to parse the query that
the user has submitted they're going to
make a plan for how they can access the
data basically which shards it resides
on and then they're going to submit
those to the relevant data
nodes the data nodes are then going to
pass that query to their Lucine indexes
which are going to run in parallel
across the relevant set segments and
utilize features like the inverted index
and the doc values to both filter and
sort the results before returning it
back up the stack the data nodes are
then going to return those partial
results to the coordinating node which
merges those results and returns them
back to the user so we've got
parallelism at multiple levels you could
potentially have multiple shards s that
are being queried we could potentially
be sending requests to different
replicas and inside the index we can
parallelize the operations across
multiple CPUs thank you for sticking
with me through this video we've covered
a ton of ground if you've got a
highlevel interview coming up either
full stack or product architecture I
hope you can use elastic search in those
instances where you need high
performance search for complex scenarios
that really require immense scale if
you've got an infrastructure style
interview coming up I'm hoping that
learning about elastic searches
internals and how Lucine works is
informative and build some inspiration
for some future designs that you might
have I'm happy to answer any questions
that you all might have in the comments
and would love uh any reactions or ways
that we can improve this um in general
we put out lots of great content on this
channel so subscribe to us if you're
interested in more system design or more
interview specific content and until
next time I'm Stefan talk to you later